# RatChoice

Python package to deal with animal behaviour data. These data are obtained in a learning and memory experiment took place at U of Toronto. The goal is to simulate the decision making process of the subjects and predict their behaviour, especially regarding when the subject is facing a new and unknown rule. The major components of the package include:

- To process experimental log and capture the information within, such as input stimuli, outcome response, time consumed etc., into csv file for statistic and data to be fit.
- A set of basic math models to fit the learning curve of subjects. The goal is to find a relatively simple model with a limited number of parameters that is capable to reproduce the learning curve (accuracy rate) of subjects under multiple conditions. This turns out to be a difficult task, that while it is possible to simulate some curves nicely, it has been impossible to unify all curves under a simple model like sigmoid or CDF and PDF of the Weibull distribution. 
- A set of more "advanced" reinforcement learning models (RL models). These models are NN based and only have the input (for experiment stimuli) and output (for the probability of decision) layers. The network has an initial state, and will be upgraded based on the reward received. Thus, with the right initial state and how the network upgrades, the model should be able to reproduce the learning process. However, the model did not work well even after extensive effort, that it could not fully reproduce some feature we see in the learning curve.
- The NN-based Learning curve is what works in the end. It is combines the RL model with basic math model, and uses superposition to predict the subjects' behaviour. The basic assumption is, the subject would make the right choice under one of the two conditions, a) it guesses based on its preference (the "Port" section of the RL model), or b) it understands the rule, i.e. the stumble-input section of the RL model. The first section would not affect the overall accuracy rate, but will tune how the accuracy rate are distributed among different conditions. The second section demonstrate the real learning section, and increase the overall accuracy. This model links the behaviours under different condition, and provide very good fit to the observation.

